what can b2b marketing learn from b2c
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
if you haven't yet check out my weekly
email where i share actionable website
and marketing tips useful podcasts free
goodies resources and much much more
every monday to start your week off with
a bang give it a try over at
businessgrowth.com
so what the heck can b2b business to
business
marketing learn from b2c
business to consumer i'm going to share
five actionable no-fluff takeaways that
you can implement for your b2b marketing
strategies today so let's dive straight
in the first thing that b2b can learn
from b2c is making it personal so what
does that really mean well
b2b marketing is well known for being
boring too corporate stuffy and just
generally stuff you might see in your
social media feed your emails wherever
and just think this is boring next
what can we learn from b2c will b2c
especially now is getting more and more
interesting entertaining with the likes
of tick tock
with influencer campaigns making funny
interesting different videos that really
stand out make you want to click and
learn more
but it all starts with understanding who
your icp your ideal client profile is
because there's no point in just
marketing in the hope that it's gonna
actually do something attract your
audience and generate revenue you need
to actually drill down and understand
who you're creating this content that's
going to hopefully educate
entertain
and help your ideal clients in the hope
that eventually they'll build up enough
reputation trust with your brand and
then choose you to do business with
so
first things first you want to look at
your existing customer base to define
your icp your ideal client profile and
you want to understand who are the
clients that first and foremost generate
good profitable revenue
who do we actually enjoy working with
and who are the clients that actually
help to grow our business overall assess
them
and then look at the ones look at the
kind of industries they're in
look at the type of services or products
and offerings that you're typically
selling to them and get a good
understanding of basically the sectors
industries what their client profile
looks like
and then once you've got say five to ten
of these existing customers that are the
ideal fit for your business you need to
interview them whether that's a phone
call a zoom call or something similar
and you want to understand a few key
things so first and foremost what was
the initial problem of frustration that
they came to you with
secondly why the heck did they choose
you out of all the vendors on the
marketplace what made them choose you
what was the way what was the process
that you actually helped them deliver
results how did you help them get the
job done
what is life like now
and why would they recommend you now the
main things that you want to understand
from this the things like the key
problems that they came to you with
the frustrations that they had before
they started working with you how you
made that transformation of bringing
them from point a to point b
so what life is like now how you've
helped them grow their business drive
revenue fix the issue and all that good
stuff and then once you've ran those
interviews and you've understand those
little golden nuggets from these
questions that you've asked your ideal
clients you want to note down and
leverage the common answers then that
can help inform your marketing and your
advertising so especially if you're
running things like ads if you're
running messaging on your website if
you're running different types of
marketing advertising campaigns
rather than just putting generic stuff
you can actually hook more ideal clients
that fit the same profile by leveraging
the frustrations the problems the pain
points that were commonly said in your
interviews in your hooks of your ads so
for example a web choice as a quick idea
clients typically come to us because
they're frustrated perhaps their website
isn't converting their hard-earned
visitors into a steady flow of sales
leads or maybe they're tired of seeing
competitors ahead of them in organic
search and google rankings stealing
their traffic and clients so these are
kind of hooks the kind of nuggets that
you can get once you understand your
idle client profile and then you can
start putting out content that's not
just boring b2b corporate nonsense you
can actually put out stuff that's going
to educate help and entertain because
you know what your idol clients are
actually caring about and take away two
stop being so damn selfish how many
times you've seen an ad or seen a
website home page top headline saying
we're award winning we're the best in
class we've been in business 30 years we
just got our series a funding who the
heck cares as humans we're typically
pretty selfish we know we want to know
what's in it for us how you can help us
how you can improve our lives or improve
our business or fix a pain point so for
this headline you want to leverage those
kind of things so how are you going to
improve someone's business how are you
going to make their life better or how
you're going to fix one of these
problems or pain points we talked about
in the earlier step or perhaps or even
differentiate yourself so you say
typically industries businesses in our
industry do this this is how we're
different so you really want to take the
shift from yourself to your target
prospects and customers and show them
what the heck is in it for them takeaway
three is openly sharing pricing so b2c
business to consumer brands typically
have no issues with this at all most of
the sites even a self-service so you can
see products offerings see how much they
cost and probably purchase directly
through the site now b2b
many companies are scared stick to share
their rates
why
not too sure because put yourself in a
buyer's shoes if you're going on to a
service a vendor's website maybe you
need some new software maybe it's
accounting maybe it's crm it doesn't
really matter so you search on google
perhaps you see a couple companies you
click the top listing you go on to their
site you're thinking all looks okay but
i want to check that i can actually
afford this
you go onto the pricing page or maybe
they don't even have one and you realize
you have to speak to a sales rep just to
get pricing that might frustrate you
right so you might just head to
competitor openly shares their rates
their main products and get in touch
with them instead so first and foremost
it can frustrate buyers and put them off
but the advantages of sharing pricing is
you actually qualify
people so it means
yes you might get fewer leads but it's
going to save your sales team time
because they can have more conversations
with people that can afford your stuff
rather than wasting time for people that
could never afford it and on your
pricing page let's say for example if
you're a sas solution maybe you have a b
c pricing for three different tiers
perhaps you're more bespoke so then you
can do ranges i.e
product type a ranges from a to b
project type b maybe ranges from b to c
pricing product type c maybe ranges from
d to e you've got three different tiers
you're not locking yourself in you're
just giving ranges so people can get a
general idea before they get in touch
and then you can back up your pricing
with things like social proof so
testimonials client review videos client
stories
accreditations under your call to
actions i booked a demo but your
strategy call you can say join
2597 people who are also using this
software to grow their business so you
can really back up your claims you can
use this as a tool to save your sales
team sending quotes and proposals they
can just send people straight to the
page link
and overall you're going to keep
prospects happier and your sales team
happier with more qualified
conversations so take a leap out of the
b2c book and openly share your rates
takeaway four is leveraging
data so b2c companies often do this well
you might see in your facebook your
social your insta feed
that perhaps you've been looking at
something recently and it pops up are
you interested in checking this out do
you want to learn more about this
product maybe you were looking at some
trainers maybe you're actually talking
about something recently and you see an
ad for it you see want to learn more
want to check out our video want to go
to our website
b2b
far too many companies are doing spray
and pay
non data driven campaigns so things like
sending out thousands of linkedin
messages not to target clients but to
anyone and everyone hoping that maybe
0.5 will respond and take a meeting
likewise on email marketing ad campaigns
so many are lacking the data so what you
want to do is start by using this idle
client profile data what typical
industries they operate in what are
their job titles what are their company
size in terms of employees what are
their sectors understanding these key
points so you can actually run targeted
advertisements so only your idle clients
see them and then you can actually
display content that's going to be
enjoyable for them so whether that's a
helpful video on your industry maybe
it's a useful infographic maybe it's a
great case study so over time you're
nurturing people with
really helpful and educational content
around your industry whether that's
videos text posts imagery infographics
and so on
so eventually when they do need your
help you're the brand that assisted them
so much they want to chat to you and you
can do the same with seo with organic
search search engine optimization
instead of focusing on very generic
terms that might be super competitive if
you're in the accountancy space that
might be accountancy software so let's
say you focused maybe focus on sas or
technology companies you might look at
things like a keyword for
best sas accountancy software or best
technology accountancy software so it's
a more longer tail keyword it's a little
bit more niche and you're more likely to
rank for it because it's specifically
drilled down to the idle clients and the
fifth and final point is make it easy to
speak to
sales so where b2c sites go right is
that many of them are just self-service
so you can quite literally see the
products see the offerings see the
pricing perhaps you can order directly
online or very similar now b2b
quite often they want to send you down
their own agenda with their company's
website so that could be things like
download our ebook download this guide
sign up to this or book a time on the
calendar instead
why not give
your visitors the choice to get in touch
with you on their preferred channel be
it live chat
be it giving you a call or click to call
on mobile be it booking time on the
calendar or maybe filling out an inquiry
form
possibly even emailing you direct so
you're giving people the option to get
in touch with you on their channel of
choice
and not only that but make it super easy
so have clear and consistent call to
actions
on your mobile view and your desktop
view of your site have your main call to
action fixed in your sticky menu nav in
your header of your website so no matter
what page people are on no matter what
device they open your site on they can
easily speak to sales on their channel
of choice ultimately it's going to give
a better experience visitors and it's
probably going to drive more inbound
sales opportunities long term for your
business and there you have it i hope
these five things that b2b marketing
could learn from b2c has been helpful as
always if you're on youtube a quick
subscribe it's very much appreciated or
if you're on the audio podcast a quick
rating helps us massively so thanks in
advance and with that said i should
catch you on the next episode
cheers